Revise Haptics explainer based on CSSWG F2F feedback (#1302)
MicrosoftEdge/MSEdgeExplainers: Haptics/explainer.md

This proposal offers two complementary mechanisms:

> 1. **Declarative API (CSS)** — a nested `@haptic` at-rule inside style rules that fires haptic effects when the parent selector starts matching (works with pseudo-classes, classes, and attributes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Declarative API (CSS)** — a nested `@haptic` at-rule inside style rules that fires haptic effects when the rule starts matching.
```

- `effect` — one of the predefined effect names: `"hint"`, `"edge"`, `"tick"`, `"align"`.
- `intensity` *(optional)* — a normalized value between 0.0 and 1.0. Defaults to 1.0.

The API always returns `undefined`. No haptic is played if the last input device is not haptics-capable, and the user agent does not reroute to another connected haptics-capable device. If sticky user activation has expired, the call is silently ignored.

### Declarative API (CSS)

> The declarative API introduces a nested `@haptic` at-rule that fires a haptic effect when the parent selector starts matching — no JavaScript required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The declarative API introduces a nested `@haptic` at-rule that fires a haptic effect when the containing rule starts matching — no JavaScript required.
```

#### `@haptic` at-rule

> The `@haptic` at-rule nests inside a style rule and declares which effect to fire and at what intensity. The haptic fires once when the parent selector transitions into matching an element. It does not fire on initial style computation — only on subsequent transitions from not-matching to matching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@haptic` at-rule nests inside a style rule and declares which effect to fire and at what intensity. The haptic fires once when the containing rule transitions into matching an element. It does not fire on initial style computation — only on subsequent transitions from not-matching to matching.
```

> 

Reviewer: How does this interact with [`@starting-style`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/At-rules/@starting-style)?

Author: Good question! I'd say we don't fire haptics in @starting-style, with the rationale being the explainer is explicitly scoping to input-driven haptics feedback. We wouldn't even know which device to fire haptics on without introducing things that will be a privacy concern.

Can be a future topic if we ever decide to support  notification scenarios (similar issues) though.

Author: Added this for clarification 

```[`@starting-style`](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-transitions-2/#defining-before-change-style) does not trigger haptics as the explainer only scopes to reactive haptics feedback.```

**Syntax:**

```css
<selector> {
  /* visual declarations */
  @haptic <effect-name> <intensity>?;
}
```

- `<effect-name>` — one of `hint`, `edge`, `tick`, `align`.
- `<intensity>` *(optional)* — a `<number>` between 0.0 and 1.0. Defaults to 1.0.

> The at-rule works with any parent selector — pseudo-classes (e.g. `:active`, `:checked`), class-driven state (`.is-open`), attribute-driven state (`[aria-invalid="true"]`), or any combination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Not needed in my opinion, would drop

### Animation haptics (`@keyframes` descriptors)

> Properties `haptic-effect` and `haptic-intensity` inside `@keyframes` blocks would embed haptic cues at specific keyframe offsets, hooking into the existing [CSS Animations](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-animations-1/) lifecycle. This enables **multi-step haptic choreography** — a capability that cannot be expressed with the one-shot `@haptic` trigger alone.

Reviewer: Do we still need these properties? Why couldn't an author just use `@haptic` in a keyframe too?

Author: Good call, removed this extension and added a sentence in the main proposal that you can do this with @haptic
